here comes the Prime Minister responding
to our advice and and that's really
where I want to begin by thanking
everybody by thanking you in the media
and also thanking everyone for the huge
efforts that the country is is making to
comply with the advice that we've been
given and we're asking such a huge
amount asking students to put their
education on hold we're asking people
not to socialize in the normal way and
already we can see the impact this is
having on the on the UK economy and on
on business on great great companies and
so it's vital that we in government
stand behind them when what we are
asking everyone to do is so crucial for
saving literally thousands of of lives
by defeating this virus and I'm
consciousness as the days have gone by
that people we want to know how long
you're expecting them to keep it up and
I wanted to try to say something today
about how I see the timescale of this
campaign and and where we're going and
what we need to do and I do think
looking at it all that we can turn the
tide within the next 12 weeks and I'm
absolutely confident that we can send a
coronavirus packing in this country but
only if we take the steps we all take
the steps that we have outlined and that
is vital because that is how we're going
to reduce the peak and once we've
achieved that and I think that we will
if we do those take take the steps that
I've said then the scientific progress
that we're making already start to come
into play and I wanted to discuss a
little bit of that this afternoon
with you because we are rapidly becoming
so much better at understanding the the
genomics of the heart of
this virus a little that is going on in
this country were getting better at
understanding the medicines that may
treat and cure it and today we've put
the first British corona patient into a
randomized trial for drugs that may
treat the disease UK experts scientists
expect to start trials for the first
vaccine within a month and we're getting
better at testing this crisis is so
difficult because the enemy is invisible
and the answer is to remove the cloak of
invisibility and to identify the virus
and to be able to know who which of us
is carrying it or who has actually had
it and now got over it and to give you
an idea of what is coming down the track
we're in negotiations today to buy a
so-called antibody test as simple as a
pregnancy test that can tell whether you
have had the disease and it's early days
but if it works as its proponents claim
then we will buy literally hundreds of
thousands of these kits as soon as
practicable because obviously it has the
potential to be a total GameChanger
because once you know that you have had
it you know that you're likely to be
less vulnerable you're less likely to
pass it on and you can go back to work
and of course by the same token were
massively increasing the testing to see
whether you have it now and ramping up
daily testing from 5,000 a day to 10,000
to 25,000 and then up at a 250,000 and
that knowledge of where the virus is
will make a huge difference to our
management of the disease and our
ability to reduce disruption and
economic difficulties and I went it took
to set that out because it's wrong it's
this is rapidly coming down the track as
I say but it will take time to come on
stream
that is why in the meantime to get back
to a theme which you know I'm going to
repeat it is absolutely vital that we
follow the advice that we've been
hearing over last a few days the
announcements that we've already made
about staying at home if you have the
symptoms if your family has the symptoms
about avoiding unnecessary contact
avoiding gatherings where you may pick
up the disease pubs bars restaurants
please please follow all that advice
scrupulously work from home if you
possibly can wash your hands wash your
hands and it's by this combination of
ruthless determined collective action
and scientific progress there we're
already seeing that we will we will
succeed and I know you how difficult it
may be or it may seem right now but if
we do this together
we will save as I say many many
thousands of lives and to everybody in
the UK business where everybody who is
worried about their their jobs and
everybody in who faces difficulties
because of the advice that we are giving
I say to business
stand by your employees stand by your
workers because we will stand by you and
you'll be hearing more about that in the
course of the next day or so and that is
how by a mixture of collective
determined collective action and
scientific progress I've seen it out
that we will turn the tide of this
disease and beat it together now I'm
going to ask I don't know whether
whether either of our two distinguished
experts need to add anything to that I
don't think they they do when only one
of me running why don't we just go
straight to two questions I don't
propose to spend a very long time at
this particular one since we've had
we've had about four or five of these
already in the last few days you know
what I do
you with these occasions you feel very
useful let's let's let's go - lets go
around - Nora
first law Kunz Berg BBC and thank you
very much Prime Minister and you told
the country yesterday you wouldn't
hesitate to take extra measures people
are worried about what that might mean
you can you tell people what might be
next will you within days seek to shut
pubs cafes clubs and a lot of people
have contacted us today to say the
measures set out for businesses to apply
to loans is simply not quick enough for
them to be able to keep their staff on
we've had a lot of messages from people
who are running businesses or a deeply
worried is it good enough to say to
business you can apply for a loan when
many of them face immediate decisions
that might mean they have to cut staff
yeah first of all own decisions about
pubs bars restaurants and so on as I
said we're guided very much by by the
science and and whether we think that
the advice that we've given is is
working so as long as we think that
people are actually staying away from
places where they may transmit all or
pick up the disease in the way that
we've recommended that we've recommended
they should avoid those places if we
feel that that is working then we just
want to say thank you to everybody for
their extraordinary efforts and
encourage everybody to do likewise if we
feel that that it isn't working as I
said yesterday we need to bring forward
tougher measures then of course nothing
is his rule dial but I want to thank
everybody for what they're doing I know
it's tough I know it's difficult but
we've just got to do it together and
please please please follow the advice
the second thing you mentioned
businesses a lot of course get grants
upfront by all too aware of the
difficulties and worries that they face
there were more on this tomorrow from
from wishy the the Chancellor issue soon
at the Chancellor and my message to to
business is
the one I gave just now stand by your
employees as because we're gonna stand
by you and we're gonna stand by the
workers of this country this time it's
going to be different as we come through
this difficult economic phase you
remember what happened in 2008 and when
he said we bailed out the banks and we
didn't look after the people who really
sort of this time we're going to make
sure that we look after the people who
really suffer from the economic
consequences of what we're asking them
to do we'll be directing our support to
them first looking after the people
first Ruby's going minister just a
couple of questions and over the half of
the 29 deaths today are in London so
p.m. I have to ask you on behalf of
Londoners do you not think it is now
right to move to a more substantial
lockdown of the capital like they have
done in Italy and Spain and France where
you can't leave your house unless your
key worker or you're going to the shops
for food or medicine are you not doing
that yet because you don't know how to
enforce it or you can't enforce it or
rather you'll do it but the time isn't
quite right and just secondly a bit of
hope there you'll suggest in to the
public that if they follow the rules
that you can turn the tide on this
disease are you telling people that by
the summer they might they just might be
able to go back to normal life be able
to go on their summer holidays thank you
yeah thanks Beth look a crucial thing
there I really stress that we do want to
see people following the advice that
we've given in the capital which is
after as you rightly say the place where
the disease seems to have been making
the fastest progress and it's vital that
people follow that advice and and
there's huge evidence that they are in
in the takings in the in the retail
sector the hospitality sector TfL in
Inner London down about 80 percent in in
our to London down about 60% but some
evidence that in some parts of the of
the capital it's it's very patchy and
some some areas where people aren't
perhaps following it in quite the way
the
we need them to do so you know that is
why to get back to the answer that I
gave to tomorrow we may have to consider
going further but I wonder what a stress
that you know there is no prospect of us
wanting to stop public transport in
London or stop TF stop the tube or the
or the buses we're not going to be
telling people that under no
circumstances if they really need to go
to work can they go to work I hope
people understand there's been some you
know I'm sure through no fault of the
the media but there's been a bit of
misunderstanding floating around about
that we're going to want people to avoid
gatherings where they can transmit the
disease well absolutely
emphatic about that and if it becomes
necessary to do more to ensure that then
we certainly we certainly will do so on
on a second question which was really
about the timing I I am very confident
that we'll get this thing done I'm very
confident that we'll beat coronavirus I
think we can turn the tide within the
next 12 weeks but it depends on
collective resolute action and I think
the encouraging thing is the more
disciplined we can all be in in doing
that the the greater the the chances
that the scientific community will be
able soon to come out as I say with
fantastic results on testing to say
nothing of other other medical
treatments
yeah wrong person on TV and if I could
ask a couple of questions to Chris
witty there's quite a lot of concern
within the NHS about capacity running
short in London hospitals could you tell
us a bit about how you see the capacity
issue in London secondly is you'll also
be aware there is a lot of concern among
medical staff that they're not getting
the predict protective equipment which
is apparently in the system it's just
not in the right places how quickly will
you be able to get it to the right place
and then finally Prime Minister you came
up with a very interesting number just
now you said 250,000 tests what what did
you mean by that are they are they on
course soon I'm gonna pass that ball
strict strict on the line to Patrick who
gave who gave me the figure earlier on
but that's well that's well that's where
we want to get you I mean we we want to
testing is I think crucial to our
success in defeating this this virus
we're making fantastic progress on
testing I we had a great meeting in
number 10 a couple of nights ago with
people who are supplying tests of all
kinds not just the antibody test today I
mentioned but much faster and more
efficient tests to see whether you
currently have the the disease and the
potential of those to help us is
obviously enormous we're not there yet
but we will get there very soon Patrick
you want to say about testing yeah
Chris's office there as well but the
testing to public health England the
currently leading the testing on this
they're ramping up to 25,000 there are
proposals to get that much higher
through other mechanisms for the virus
itself and then the antibody test if
that turns out to be something that can
really be applied that's one that you'd
want to ramp up as well so ideally you'd
like to get to those sorts of numbers
you'd like to be able to do it for both
testing the infection itself and testing
the antibody practically that can be
done I mean the testing for the virus is
a pretty standard technology it just
happens to be obviously precise for this
virus but it's not a new technology
you've got to invent and if the antibody
test is reliable and works and you know
that if sinned that's that centers but
if it does then that's a relatively easy
thing to scale up on pressure in London
so at the moment London from the corona
virus is under pressure but indirectly
but that's going to go up and that is
actually the reason for doing all of the
things we're trying to do and the first
thing that we'll get under the greatest
pressure will be in the end
of care and respiratory care system and
that's the thing which in a sense that's
the first point of of real pressure on
the NHS that's going to happen and to be
clear even if everybody does all the
things we hope and really really would
ask they do do the numbers will continue
to go up over the next two weeks because
it continues it takes a while for there
to be a lag if there's a lag until
things start to improve now at that
stage we need to do three things the
first of which is obviously to try and
pull the peak down and that is the key
thing that everybody can help with in
terms of the social distancing and let
me be very straightforward if the
numbers are high enough if a high enough
proportion of people choose to and do go
in for serious social distancing and
there's a lot of evidence a huge
proportion of people are we don't know
yet whether it's enough that will pull
the peak down if they do not then the
battery is going to be a problem this is
this is the national effort bit the
second thing we have to do and this is
an NHS issue is to increase the number
of beds which are capable of taking
respiratory patients because that's the
big bottleneck for this particular
infection so that's that's very
important and then the third thing we
have to do is at the moment all NHS
staff who are getting viral getting
symptoms that are compatible with this
virus are quite rightly self-isolation
and isolating with their families if
they have a household and that is taking
people out of the system and the key
thing we need to do is get the testing
out the first priority was itu second
priority all the people who got symptoms
but the next priority for us is to get
the NHS workers so we can test them
quickly and then if they got it
fine they continue but they know they've
had it once if they have not got it then
they can come back to work or if the the
reason they've stayed at home is because
someone else in their family has got the
symptoms we would test them and see if
they've got it on PPE the though there
is a kind of there's a local and a
global issue on this i completely
understand the points that my colleagues
in the NHS
are concerned about on PPE they write to
me regularly about this and entirely
reasonably and this is a major strand of
work for um not for the Department of
Health and Social Care is to make the
sure that this works obviously in the
short term this is about making sure
that the PPE stocks that there are go to
the right places in the longer term it's
about making sure that the global system
because of course everybody wants this
and the supplies in some areas have gone
down there is a glut there will be a
globalist we need to put together and
the final thing we need to get right on
PPE is training because if you use PPE
incorrectly it doesn't really have any
advantages and occasionally can even
make things worse so it is important to
get all three of those sorted out thanks
Chris
Mesa Mesa Hall Daily Express
thank you very much prime minister
firstly on the antibody test that you
mentioned can you say a bit more about
how that's going to be rolled out will
people be tested in their own homes how
will people be selected whether they're
going to have it and secondly there is
some evidence that some shops and online
retailers have been whacking up the
prices of in-demand goods
I mean concerned that there was
profiteering going on in this national
crisis well I'm going to ask Chris and
Patrick to talk about the the test kit
though are as I understand it it's like
a pregnancy test kit so I think I think
blood is is is required right rather
than urine but that's the that's the
basic idea but I'll invite the experts
and the scientific a medical as opposed
to comment on their on the test and it
may sir on you know mass buying and and
the jet and that and the the price issue
I really hope that retailers will
continue to be reasonable and I
certainly don't wouldn't want to see
profiteering of any kind as as I said
before in these meetings you know we've
got good supply chains farm-to-fork
there's no reason for the shops really
to be to be empty and just III of course
I everybody understands why people are
buying stuff that we're all being
advised us to stay at home if we think
we have symptoms and so on but please be
reasonable please be reasonable in your
shopping be
considerate and thoughtful of others as
you do it we should be clear that
although we're confident there will be
antibody tests we're not absolutely
confident yet about whether the ones
that are currently on the market are the
right ones and that needs to be tested
out and that's something which is an
absolute priority for public health
England but once we have these the key
thing for in the first case healthcare
workers and then other workers and land
as a society is we'll be able to say to
someone you've had this virus you're not
likely to get again at least in the
immediate term and now we can be
confident you can return to work and now
we can be confident you don't need to
take some of the precautions that you've
been taken to date now it'll take
they'll be a while before we've actually
got this in large enough numbers and
this is more useful for a variety of
reasons I'd probably this is not the
right environment to go into but more
useful the further on in the epidemic it
is but this will be something which
helps society to normalize little by
little even whilst we still have
significant number of cases so this is
going to make as the promises says a
very big difference in the long run once
we got tests that we can rely on
thank you very much Lucy Fisher times
thank you two quick questions if I may
firstly to the experts new data from the
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention shows that nearly 40% of
patients sick enough to be hospitalized
in the u.s. were aged 20 to 54 is there
any concern that the pandemic is
affecting younger people in the UK worse
than previously thought and secondly and
Prime Minister a tide of redundancies
are sweeping the country and your own
MPs have said that government is not
doing enough to help struggling
businesses retain workers you've
mentioned that the Chancellor is going
to talk more about this tomorrow but do
you accept that every day you delay
announcing new support measures will
cause thousands of jobs to go well let
me let me say first of all on that it's
very very important everybody
understands that we will stick by
businesses and I hope that businesses
will stick by their employees this
country is going to to
SPAC we're gonna need some fantastic
companies remaining to bounce back as
well and they're it's absolutely vital
that everybody understands that now
Ricci will be saying the chance will be
saying more tomorrow about the package
were putting in place for for workers
across the country to to support
everybody through this difficult time
we've been talking to the trades unions
and others today and we think we'll have
a great package ready to go so I hope
people will stick by their employees
because we're all gonna need them on the
second question you asked it's clear
that there are three things that
probably people need to think about
simultaneously firstly the great
majority people who get this far as
irrespective of age will recover from it
and most of those will have a mild or
moderate illness not requiring any
hospitalization very important to make
that point first off because I think
that isn't a key point for people to
remember it is particularly it seems to
be true for children where children
seemed on the whole to have this as a
milder disease than adults and probably
quite a lot milder in those cases how
the second thing is it is also true that
particular groups of older people or
vulnerable people medically vulnerable
do get this more severely and if you
look in the data from China if you look
in the data from Italy and if you look
in the data initially from the UK most
of the deaths occurring in those groups
but and this is the point that the u.s.
is making and I think it's an important
point to emphasize that is not to say
that there will not be severe cases
amongst people who are younger adults
and that is important because it's
important that people don't trivialize
this this is a significant issue for
everybody although the great burden of
disease will tend to fall in terms of
severe disease in the more vulnerable
groups and that's why we've given very
specific advice to people who are over
70 or have pre-existing health
conditions that there will be people who
don't fall into those groups who will
fall seriously ill unfortunately the
great majority will not but some will
and so we do ask people nearest take
this seriously for yourself as well as
taking it seriously for
of society and as a way of taking
pressure off the NHS thanks very much
Gordon where's Gordon Gordon right tell
him well last question on the Freid
everybody Thank You Prime Minister just
to just to pick up on what Beth
Australia you've you've quoted this
figure of 12 weeks to turn the tide
which is the first time you've said that
you haven't really defined four is what
turning the tide means but I don't know
whether perhaps Chris or Sir Patrick
might be able to explain what that would
look like does that mean that we will be
well over this and we'll be returning to
our normal lives or does that mean that
we will have just hit the peak and we'll
be starting to go back to the other side
what does that actually mean what I want
us to do is to get on top of it and at
the moment the disease is is is
proceeding you know in a way that does
not seem yet to be responding to our
interventions and I believe that a
combination of the measures that we're
asking the public to take and better
testing scientific progress will enable
us to get on top of it within the next
12 weeks and and turn the tide now I
cannot stand here and tell you that we
will have by the end of June that we
will be on the downward slope it's
possible but Ike I simply can't say that
that's that's for certain of course not
we don't know where we are we don't know
how long this thing will go on for but
what I can say is that this is going to
be finite we will turn the tide and I
can see how to do it
within the next 12 weeks anyway wouldn't
comment on
very well I mean I think I think we were
absolutely at the beginning of this
where where the measures that are in
place should start having an impact on
the rate of growth of the epidemic and
though those are significant measures as
we all know and they're expected to then
delay and break transmission train
chains so you would expect the epidemic
to come down and the sooner we get that
down the more then we can move into
phases as well where we can test and
trace and make sure that we keep on top
of this and there's a start of clinical
trials first patient enroll today
there's the start of vaccine trials in
mid-april expected these are things
which all together start to tell us that
we've moved from a phase of it's growing
and we need to take these measures to
try and stop it growing to one square
we're saying put a lid on it and begin
to start looking at what we do beyond
that in order to get into the right
position and so I think that's where we
need to get to and that's the time scale
over which we need to really push to
make sure that we get there thanks very
much everybody I hope that I I don't
want to sound um you know I'm often
accused of being unnecessarily booster
about things and I certainly don't want
to strike that note today but I
genuinely think that we buy the
combination of these two things we will
turn the tide and we will get through it
but it is vital that we all do the first
of of those take the first of those two
steps together we do need a much a very
very energetic concerted effort to
follow the medical advice and everybody
knows what it is we will make a huge
huge difference if we all do it together
and then I think what will happen is
that we will start to see development
such as we've seen in other countries
where things of that the curve has
started to come down we will see the
impact of our testing program some of
the new tests that were talking about I
think we'll start to see those making a
making a profound difference and that is
why my message to
two companies is is really think very
carefully before you you start laying
off your staff we do want to stand
behind good companies we do want to make
sure that people recognize that if they
stand behind their staff they should
stand by and they start because we in
the government are gonna stand behind
British firms and as I say you've heard
a lot about that this week from from the
Chancellor you gonna hear more tomorrow
about what we're gonna do to support to
support employees thank you all very
much this is probably I think this is
the kind of a how many of these we've
now had you're all moving further and
further away from each other in
deference to to the virus I think that I
think that there may be a moment when we
start to to do this remotely or is that
I don't know what the what the plan is
but it is it is I hope you agree that
however we do it it is important that we
should continue to have these
discussions every day I do I do think
that their value right we try to be as
as as as candid as we possibly can about
what is going on and I hope that you
find them useful so we may have to find
something we may have to find some way
of getting them done in a way that
doesn't look to everybody else as their
work you know when we're somehow not
following the advice that we give the
public do you get me I mean I know
you're all sitting a long way away from
each other but it may be that we you
know we need to do more even more social
social distancing what do you think some
sort of remote some sort of remote press
con can you can you live with that you
wonder you want to be like yo course all
I see mean you're worried you won't be
able to ask questions I can see our
anxiety okay well I will make a pledge
that if we have to move which I think we
probably will if we have to move to a
more remote form of interrogation I will
absolutely ensure everybody gets to ask
questions they're not necessarily all
the same meeting thank you all very much
thank you
[Music]